yes yes welcome to bite size B2B
marketing where our aim is to give B2B
companies easy to digest tips to help
improve their marketing efforts I'm
joined today by Sam Dunning the co-owner
of web Choice a web agency based in
England and he is the host of the highly
successful B2B marketing podcast the
business growth show and it's my
pleasure to have him on the podcast
today Sam how you doing man
Steve thanks for having me on man
excited to chat today should be a good
one yeah me too me too it's been a long
overdue we've been following each other
on LinkedIn a while and yeah looking
forward to jumping into this review and
having a wide arranging chat about
search engine optimization for B2B
companies so let's kick it off with our
first question so nice hopefully easy
one but why is SEO important for B2B
companies in 2023
you've only got to go on LinkedIn for
five minutes or so if you're on B2B and
you'll see a bunch of people saying SEO
is no longer as good as it was like you
should rely on dark social Word of Mouth
you should do this new page strategy but
the truth is everyone right now buys or
finds Solutions in different ways and
there's plenty of data out there to tell
you that tons of people still use Google
as one of their first ports of cool when
they need a solution and from a B2B
perspective if you're not showing up
when your ideal clients are quite
literally searching for your service
your product your widget your Tech
offering your SAS solution then your
competitors probably are so if you're
not ranking decently if you're not on
the top few spots that page one your
competitors are simply going to steal
your traffic your opportunities and get
a steady flow of inbound Ops for their
sales team whilst you miss out
yeah agreed we yeah I think the last few
guests that we've interviewed a couple
of the episodes our live couple of them
aren't yet but quite a large portion
well not a large portion of it but one
key point of it was not saying never use
the word say SEO is dead but it kind of
felt like that was the phrase it was
like look that's in the past the new is
now appearing in these communities
getting in front of your audience and
marketing in that way whereas I know
you've been quite a big proponent on
LinkedIn of saying that that's great and
you should do that but then you've also
got all of this demand that you should
be capturing that's already there ready
for the taking and that's what you
should be focusing on as well
exactly exactly I mean like you said
unless there's so many marketers out
there that say SEO is not as effective
as it was and people buy differently now
but just like you mentioned there Steve
everyone has their own way of doing
things and B the B2B buying cycle unless
you sell something super low ticket it's
pretty complex when you talk to when
you're looking at buyers that are
perhaps investing I don't know a grand
plus into a solution they're not gonna
wake up and decide to buy your widget or
your tool or your SAS offer they're
going to take some consideration take
some thought around it and there's
probably going to be a number of
channels that influence them so things
like communities are important things
like podcasts YouTube channels are
important as is LinkedIn as is dark
social where people talk offline and
WhatsApp groups Skype groups
slack channels whatever but if you're
not showing up organically in search
when people are actually needing your
offer then you're simply missing out a
chance to get that piece of brand Equity
because SEO is not only good just to
capture the conversion or capture
inquiry but it can also build on brand
equity and brand reputation because if
if your site is constantly showing up
when people have a question around your
Niche when people are trying to learn
more about your Niche when people are
comparing you to a common competitor if
you're showing up each and every time
you're going to get that brand equity in
the back of their mind so it's just
helping position you as the Top Choice
as well as giving you a chance to
capture the demo request or the lead
yeah because it's almost like saying
that blindly focusing on the community
aspect of it you're assuming that the
customer isn't doing their due diligence
they've just got a referral and that's
it they're like okay let's go with it
but if it's a high ticket purchase
they're gonna be going to Google and
they're going to be doing some research
themselves might go to chat GPT do the
research themselves but they're still
gonna do research around what they're
going to be purchasing so if you can be
recommended in that Community but also
appear in the search that's like a
double
wow that in both places and if you're
not recommended in the in that
communities or dark social or any of
these other platforms then you do appear
over here then it's again your other
chance to get put into the mix of when
the typical vendors have to get three or
four quotes together make a decision
you'll be in the running then so
exactly and someone laid out something I
interviewed a guy called Blake I forgot
his name surname a while ago but he laid
out a really good point that stuck in my
mind recently that when you look at from
a B2B perspective most of us are on the
tax side anyway hanging out on LinkedIn
and you've got to think people that are
typically the most active on LinkedIn
are like Tech marketers B2B marketers HR
and sellers but think of all the
industries outside of that there's a ton
of Industries outside of that and these
people don't hang out on LinkedIn as
much even though they're in B2B they're
more traditional in the way they do
business and a lot of those prospects
they start their searches for anything
on Google
so a lot of these B2B kind of tech
garage are saying ignore SEO but they're
talking to their audience like they're
dealing with tech marketers but they're
forgetting about tons of Industries
they're going to start their searches on
Google as opposed to using like these
communities and other channels that are
let's say a bit newer age like started
in the last three to five years or so
and a lot more popular but only for
those sectors if that makes sense yeah
that does make sense and even I had that
experience I was chatting to a friend
who works in marketing she's a marketing
manager at a company that we would
potentially want to work with matches
our ICP and I was speaking to her about
LinkedIn I was like oh wouldn't it be
funny if I accidentally sent you like
when I was spamming out like messages
when I was first getting onto LinkedIn
just that any marketing managers I
wouldn't be funny if I just had sent one
out to you so we'd like check through
and then she was like yeah but I don't
use LinkedIn I never go on it I set it
up when I came out of uni I update my
role but I never go on it and I was like
ah yeah like you do get into that the
blinkers on and think this is the only
Channel this is the only way to get
clients but then you forget about the
person who can only be reached if you
cold call them or if you go to a
networking event or other ways
essentially I think one thing that your
content is very good at and you're very
vocal about saying as well is that SEO
isn't right for every B2B company so
let's dive into that a bit and when
shouldn't B2B companies invest in SEO
a nice analogy here is like the great
the greatest sales professionals I have
ever met qualify out early so they know
that not every prospect that they speak
to is a good fit for them as is the same
with SEO so there are some situations
where SEO is not a great fit I.E if
you're in a new sector or a new category
so if you're creating a product that
doesn't fit in a traditional sector
that's established then SEO might not be
the best bet reason being is people
don't know your offer or your solution
exists to fix their problem so they're
not going into Google and typing like I
don't know let's say a new new form of
crime they're not searching for some
type of CRM because they don't know your
offers out there so it's not necessarily
the best bet in that situation you're
probably better option there is actually
understanding where your ideal clients
are hanging out maybe they're listening
to a podcast maybe they're on YouTube
maybe they are in specific communities
offline and then starting to create
content out on media on those Outlets
educating them around the problems you
solve the value you bring to the table
how your the benefits that you provide
Etc and case studies whatever and then
over time once the sector once the offer
that you have becomes more established
then you'll probably start getting some
search volume on Google and you can
capture that with SEO I mean you can
there is an argument that you could do
SEO to a new category because you could
just go real top of the funnel and just
start answering questions that your
ideal clients have start creating kind
of content that's really really early
stage around queries comparisons those
kind of searches but in my opinion
you're much better off waiting for the
sector to become established and using
the other channels that your buyers
already on nice and then a few other
scenarios where SEO might not be the
best fit is perhaps if you're on if
you're I don't know a tech company you
don't necessarily have to be in Tech but
maybe you've got investors that are
putting a ton of pressure on you and the
sales team to hit Revenue targets super
fast which happens a lot in the current
climate so you might be better off just
putting a ton of cash behind paid search
or forms of paid advertising because SEO
as we know typically you're looking at
three months or so to see some kind of
return even with the fastest and most
aggressive campaign so those are a
couple situations where it might not be
the the best bet or perhaps you just
don't have the resources or spend to
work with an agency or your own internal
team to make it worthwhile yeah exactly
I think people always underestimate how
much effort goes into it like with that
three month time scale that's ambitious
in my case and they don't realize how
much work has to go into kind of hit
that and it's yeah very under-resourced
and undervalued that people don't
realize how much you need to put into it
and I think the good point you mentioned
there as well was around the new
categories and for those is there and
it's not specifically just related to
SEO but is there anything that you would
say to those companies early stage tech
companies in terms of their website what
kind of core components do you feel
would go into the website even if
they're not investing SEO but what does
it need to have in place to help support
all the other things that they're doing
yeah yeah so a lot of tech companies
these days they use the traditional
model so most use the predictable
Revenue model which is basically they
have sdrs little cold cool inter-target
prospects and book demos for that
account execs and then the chances are
in between setting those appointments
whether that's off cold calling cold
email or some kind of cold Outreach
maybe LinkedIn prospects probably going
to check out your website right and in B
to B and we can move on to other forms
of Outreach in a sec but in B2B most of
the time prospects don't have a ton of
time so they they want to quickly get an
idea of kind of what your company does
the value they you bring to the table or
the problem that you solve for them
probably check out some proof of results
so some proof of work that you can do
what you say you do testimonials video
reviews case studies GT reviews captor
reviews Etc check out your pricing so
make sure they can actually afford what
you do no one wants to sit on a call the
sales rep to be qualified only to find
that your offer costs 10 grand a month
but they only budgeted one grand a month
wasted everyone's time they probably
want to get their questions answered so
they might have some questions around if
you integrate with their tool how long
it takes to set up if they get a
dedicated account manager so understand
the questions you get asked on a daily
basis and put those in relevant pages on
your site as FAQs on the basis that you
check all those boxes which 95 of B2B
sites fail on and then they want to
easily schedule a call with your sales
team so they want to easily book a demo
on your reps calendar or book a consult
call or whatever that next step is so if
you can nail those pieces you're ahead
of most B2B companies then you can top
that with a site that loads pretty
quickly has a design that's going to
engage your your target clients has copy
that resonates with Target clients I AKA
speaks to the problems they care about
talks about the benefits and the
features that they care about and like I
say answers their questions quickly then
you're probably one step ahead of the
game
yeah agreed a nice setup and as you're
saying yeah 95 of sites tendency at
least fail one of those items if not the
majority of them and sticking on that
topic of mistakes and moving back into
SEO as well what's the biggest mistake
you see B2B companies make with SEO I
know we touch briefly on under
resourcing and budget there but is there
anything that else that you tend to see
that B2B company's Main
loads loads so sometimes they'll go into
things like
blog straight away and maybe that's
because they've been recommended to do
blog straight away by a friend or by
their agency or whoever but they haven't
actually mapped out or built out their
site properly or done any keyword
research around
capturing those High intent buyers
because the main goal of SEO let's be
honest as a B2B company you want to
scale your Revenue you want to scale
either inbound consult requests or
inbound demos or whatever that point of
conversation is so you can get a
qualified Prospect to your sales team
so you want to look at the bottom of the
funnel AKA what is a high intent
Prospect in a search when they need your
solution today and let's say for example
maybe you provide I don't know Financial
Services to accountants let's say
someone's going to search Financial
Service Company for accountants in this
rare obscure situation but that was just
what came into my head so you want to
make sure you show up when that is the
case and in that case a blog's not
necessarily going to help you but what's
better is you've looked into what terms
are my ideal clients searching when they
need it or what problems do they face
that they might search for when they've
got a kind of problem you fix I.E my
accounting software isn't integrating
with this or how to integrate this
accounting software with this tool
something like that so therefore you
want to make sure you build out these
bottom of the funnel pages that match
that search intent that someone's going
to type in so a lot of businesses
especially B2B have very content thin
sites they've only got four or five
pages yeah maybe home about Services
contact maybe they've got a few blog
post that they were told to do like top
five things to consider when investing
in X or five things to do before why
that's not really going to help you
capture those High intent prospects that
are searching for your offer today what
instead what you want to do is yeah
research those relevant terms and then
build out Best in Class long form pages
that directly address those Solutions
yes we're going to help you fix this
these are the problems that prospects
typically come to us to fix this is how
we do it this is some case studies these
are some common questions around it
here's a video summary right here's some
social proof here's a testimonial video
review of our client here's a call to
action now you can book a demo or book a
console or request a call with us a lot
of companies fail on those bottom of
funnel pages
we see that a lot it's it tends to be
one of the number one things that we'll
see with our SEO clients is that you'll
have a service page but you'll have all
of the services listed on that page as
either bullet points or it's just little
sections and it doesn't click through
into having their own unique landing
page so then that can then rank for the
keyword that people are searching for so
yeah that's something we see quite a lot
on our side as well on the content side
of things and moving over to the cannot
have a chat about I say without talking
about links and in terms of how they
feed into the strategies that you build
out for your clients how important are
links and what kind of factors do you
feel they'll keep playing in the years
to come
there's always an argument right some
seos will say oh it's 100 content like
if you build quality content and you
build it super aggressively put out 100
kind of long form Pages or articles a
month and you're going to be fine
because some of it's going to rank job
done
which I think is true to some extent
make sure your content really is Best in
Class I.E it surpasses the other
competitors when you Google the search
term and it gives more unique stats it
gives better answers to their questions
it talks about the problems in more
depth and basically gives the user the
best possible information to their query
now yes that's true
and that works very well for long tail
searches I.E in our case that might be
something like B2B SAS SEO company or
B2B SAS web development is a long tail
search for us yeah fine
but when you're getting to Super
competitive terms in our case like web
development or web development company
or just SEO company or in B2B SAS
something like B2B SAS CRM or CRM
company Etc just having a best-in-class
page is not enough because you're going
against huge competitors that have got a
ton of links but not only a ton of links
they've got some super high domain
Authority links coming from juicy sites
like HubSpot maybe Salesforce and the
like yeah I've got a chance and Hell of
ranking against them if they've got
those kind of links so yes when you get
to more competitive Search terms that
have a lot of competition you need links
if you want to stand a chance to ranking
against them and Google have said
theirselves that link links are a trust
building factor in the algo they will
release that in notes before so yes when
you're going more long tail more
specific more Niche keywords to rank you
can rank without links as long as you've
got some Authority behind your site but
when you're trying to get more and more
competitive links play A Part
yeah so of course there's there's a lot
of sites out there where you can
purchase links from guest blogs ranging
to more let's say trustworthy sites
perhaps editorial links Etc which is
probably more you want to stick to and
you want to make sure you've got
professional guidance around it when
doing so but there's a bunch of free
ways that you can build links like just
like we're doing now one way that I
recommend is podcasting is actually
quite a good way to build links for you
use a cycle chartable.com you can choose
the sector you're in look at the top
podcasts in your sector then you can
reach out to the hosts of each podcast
and then give them a decent pitch over
email LinkedIn whatever the best way to
reach out to them is do a decent
interview where you give value and give
useful tips around your sector and then
the chances are they'll do an article
page on their site after the show goes
out and you can ask for a link back to
your back to your page and there's
another good one is if you if you find
complementary companies to your industry
like for us as web devs and SEO then you
might look for a CRM provider or an
analytics tools provider or SAS solution
provider that's complementary to find a
complimentary company for your
organization reach out to them maybe
publish some content together I don't
know one-off podcast one-off blog
article one off video build out that
article together and then link back to
each other and if they've got a decent
site that's been around a few years got
some Authority that can give quite a
juicy link so there's a lot of ways when
you get Scrappy and get thoughtful and
think about collaboration that you can
actually build links for next to note
cost but just a bit of your time
I think it's just activities like that
that are
always on and can just be done in the
background with not too much investment
and the thing is as well that I've seen
the all the people that we've
interviewed for this podcast over the
last month or so they've all recorded it
themselves and they've all taken that
and chopped up themselves they've not
only going on the podcast getting that
link they've also then got this
recording for themselves to then put out
in their own marketing as well it's a
great way of not only getting that link
but it's useful for all your other
marketing activity as well
sure and in terms of one quite
interesting thing that came up both in
the chat with Ryan Stewart and with Ryan
fishkin as well was how their
relationship has changed with SEO over
the years so initially both of them
starting out very blinkered SEO is the
only solution of any parallels with your
relationship with SEO and how that's
happened and how do you tend to approach
it now definitely because when we first
started years ago we work with all kinds
of clients it's not until we've niched
down to mainly B2B service and B2B tech
companies that we serve and over the
last kind of three or four years maybe a
bit longer
and when you look at these kind of
offers the products that these B2B
companies sell like we touched on at the
start they're not quick buying decisions
unless you're talking about I don't know
100 fifty dollar tool that someone can
just click on your website and then
purchase when you go above that price
range there's a lot of consideration
that goes into it people don't wake up
and buy your stuff there's generally
several decision makers involved in the
process it's gonna involve some
conversation back and forth so that's
when you realize that yes SEO is a piece
of the puzzle but you need a solid
multi-channel approach for SEO to have
the best impact
so when you start realizing that people
are yes they're doing a Google search
yes they're flicking onto your website
but after that stage they might not
inquire on their first time to your
website if they're super high intent and
they need your offer today yes they
might make the inquiry or make the demo
request today otherwise they might flick
off then you might want to consider
using things like retargeting perhaps
you retarget them on LinkedIn serve them
some case studies serve them some useful
guides Etc perhaps they flick onto your
site for a bit and then they decide to
consume your podcast for a while which
has happened with us I don't know they
subscribe to your YouTube or subscribe
to Apple podcast then they listen that
to that for a while then they forget
about you for a bit then they search for
your offer again oh yeah I remember that
brand like I'm going back to on them so
the B2B cycle the cell cycle is not
linear so you'll see that SEO will play
a piece of the puzzle but I'm not gonna
lie to you and say it's the entire thing
there's a lot of channels that make up
it and when you get on these sales
conversations and you ask your sales
team to say look what was your journey
to discovering us today that's when
you'll uncover like the full journey to
how they actually found you and the
route they take
yeah we had someone reach out to me on
like my personal Instagram saying that
they had read one of my blog posts and
was looking to see if we could help them
Implement what I'd written about first
of all as we can hold on how did the
website not convert them and did the
website fail in that side of things but
then it was also thinking like it's just
you have this idea of this pretty little
funnel of someone moving through and
doing this and this but it's not until
they reach out to you on your personal
Instagram account and you're like oh
okay like it's they'll get in touch with
you what is in the way that's convenient
for them and and when they want to as
much as you want them to kind of get in
touch with you when you want them to so
I really encourage
B2B teams to make sure as part of their
sales process they ask the journey that
people took to find them because I know
Chris Walker and The refined Labs crew
encourage you to put how do you hear
about us on our Forum on that and on
Quarry forms Demi forms but I don't
think that's enough because I've had
many examples where people just put
Google up they put LinkedIn in fact
recently someone put LinkedIn on how do
they hear about us on the actual sales
school I said I see you mentioned
LinkedIn like were you getting so tired
of my content that you thought you'd
make me shut up and reach out to me just
to make me shut up he's like nah man it
wasn't even LinkedIn like I listened to
your podcast for like a few months and
then I realized you actually knew a
little bit about what you were talking
about so I decided to reach out yeah I
thought it just took his form fill which
was how did you hear about us LinkedIn
it'll be completely wrong it was the
podcast you tune into that so getting
your sales team to dive a bit deeper
gives you the kind of a bit of a finer
insight into the route that they took
I think a lot of SEO campaigns and
strategies especially with the agency
client relationship it's first of all a
lot of them will just be like hey we've
got you some traffic amazing go us and
then the next step would be like hey
look great we've got you some leads
wonderful and then I feel really there's
that disconnect between being like did
that lead turn into a paying customer
was it a good paying customer do we want
more of these customers is that kind of
Disconnect and it's almost the same with
that rather than just being like great
we've got 50 leads cable what was the
quality and as you said I think that's
always the first thing I'm just so
interested on when I get on that initial
Discovery call is that how did you hear
about us what was that Journey like and
figuring out what stood out for the
minute and yeah agreed with you that it
needs to have both of that self-reported
attribution but then also just
validating it and digging into it a
little bit by saying
you said LinkedIn but exactly how on
LinkedIn for example so
and in terms of taking it back to SEO
and to a company that say hasn't
invested heavily in SEO or has started
and stopped and started a little bit
let's say I am running marketing at B2B
company and we are looking to invest in
SEO again or even for the first time
where would you recommend that we start
it's knowing essentially that one of the
first things you want to do if you're
going to invest in organic SEO and
you've not done anything before is
knowing the idle clients and the exact
solutions that you want to serve and the
problems you fix but it's amazing how
many B2B companies how many marketers
how many Founders don't actually know
the problem that their offer fixes most
of the time when I ask people what
problems you fix they tell me the
benefits oh yeah we work with I don't
know marketing directors and tech
companies with 50 to 100 staff and we
give this benefit or we improve their
revenue by 10x or we can speed up
integration by 5x it's like that's not a
problem that's a benefit why is someone
so frustrated that they've got this
bleeding neck issue that they're
eventually coming to you with because
once you know that that's like rocket
fuel for your ads for your content for
your media your videos your podcast Etc
so that's important knowing who you want
to actually Target and knowing what
Solutions you what are most profitable
do you actually want to get acquire
clients for and then keyword research
but traditional keyword research as we
know it just using tools like ahref
semrash Keyword Planner is it's got its
it's got its part for sure because it's
going to give you an idea of traditional
terms bottom of the funnel terms
but you want to also look at problem
searches and you also want to consider
what's called zero traffic searches
which is where you get really Niche and
long term like I'm doing a lot of this
for our own company web choice so things
like B2B SAS SEO company to be fintech
SEO company stuff like I'm going after
really obscure terms that there's
there's still a bit of competition for
but the traditional tools tell me that
they're zero but I know that if a high
intent client types in that search we
come up top and give them the answers
they need then they're going to inquire
so I'm happy to let all our competitors
neglect these terms so thinking about
different stages once you've nailed
those let's say bottom of the funnel
High intent problems High intent
solution terms then you can work your
way up the funnel where people are
perhaps comparing you to another vendor
where people perhaps looking for diff
terms around their industry Etc but yeah
you've got to build out your website so
a big part of this is on page SEO and I
could talk about this for hours feel
free to stop me when you get bored yes
like I said earlier a lot of B2B
companies a lot of tech companies their
websites already then they just have
four or five pages maybe a little blog
section yeah and it's like we touched on
really you need to make sure you've got
those pages for each individual Main
Service that you want to be selling each
main offer perhaps each main industry
each main segment perhaps each
geographic location so just thinking
about that alone that could be 5 10 20
30 different pages alone only then once
you've mapped out all those core
services and offers can you start
thinking about mapping out the blog
articles and working up the funnel yeah
and then there's technical SEO right and
it's quite funny because I know you and
I Steve put out a post recently on
LinkedIn about Google almost
backtracking because they used to they
were saying that core web vitals and
having a fast site having a secure site
have a mobile friendly site was a build
endle now it's oh yeah that's not
important not as important now you've
just got to serve prospects what they're
actually searching for and give them a
good experience it's a funny one yeah I
feel like it's almost like a part of me
for the reason why they had gone back on
call vitals because I felt it was very
complicated compared to that simple
score in the top so I can see why they
did it because it's like I think people
thought great we've got 95 why aren't we
ranking top and then I think a similar
thing happened with core vitals I think
part of it was it is quite confusing to
people who aren't familiar with it and
aren't developers and then also if we
score high on it why aren't we ranking
and I think they've now tried to say
provide a good experience and it's like
how do you even quantify a good
experience it's not possible and it
could mean five different things to five
different people and yeah it just always
seems to go back to the provide a good
user experience and then that's it
you'll rank well but we know full well
that is true but that's a small tiny
part of it and the bigger part is
content and the bigger part is links how
many times have you been outranked by a
terrible website that's built some
fairly dodgy links that you don't want
to build but they've gone and done it
and you think okay well there's
definitely more to it than just
providing a good experience
that's it that's why it's always so
valuable for companies that are starting
out on SEO to really Niche down and get
as long tail as they can as specific as
they can with their search queries
because the more specific you go the
less competition you go and also the
usually the more higher intent prospects
you can bring them on board yeah and
it's funny you should mention all that
because the best example of going
against the Google guidelines is that
calculator if you search that calculator
okay top listing comes up with a site
that's not mobile responsive it doesn't
even has an SSL certificate so it's
unsecure but this site's top of Google
yeah it's been their top for years and
years I think it's you literally just
like that calculator is the top listing
and yeah it's just funny because it goes
against everything that Google's ever
put out in terms of kind of guidelines
to follow but like you said Steve I
think you've got a striker balance so
you've got to work to eeat and
experience expertise Authority trust but
at the same time with the content and
show you've got hands-on experience in
the field but at the same time if your
site's slow doesn't work well on the
device if the many nav's hard to follow
if there's not clear call to actions Etc
a user is just going to get pissed off
and fire over to competitor that gives
them a more enjoyable experience your
bounce rate is going to be Sky High if
you don't follow those things and just
step it back a tiny little bit to where
we were talking about the geographical
Pages or those Niche Pages for example
fintech SEO or say fintech web design so
those kind of specific Niche service
Pages how do you prioritize those so
you've done your keyword research you've
now got a list of keywords fairly
similar search volumes or there's no
real clear winner how would you then go
about prioritizing those to get produced
first
yeah in terms of business output really
what are the most profitable clients
that you actually want to be working
with and you might start with maybe some
pages that have got a little bit of
traffic because there's some searches
going on so what are the type of
prospects the type of clients type of
customers that you know are going to be
going to give you the best LTV lifetime
value for your business yeah start with
those might make sense once you've hit
those top four or five offers then work
your way out start branching out to
customers that are still useful but
perhaps not as great not as Revenue
driving as the others and Branch out to
the next step below once you've nailed
all those kind of top Solutions in those
top industries and you've built out the
pages for those Solutions and those
Industries and then you can start
working your way kind of a bit higher up
the funnel and start maybe doing blog
articles that compare vendors or ask
questions or answer questions or give
insights Etc I think that's a very
under reported step during the keyword
research is looking at how much of a
priority is for the business how much
revenue it makes them the profit margin
and the lifetime value I think it's
something that is often neglected with a
lot of the time the SEO agency will be
like
it's not my remit or that doesn't matter
we just go after the low difficulty High
search volume keywords which play an
important role and factor into it but if
that keyword is worth double to you in
terms of business value it's going to be
need to be focused on first
great example for our industry Steve is
like if you go after terms in our our
situation like SEO company or SEO agency
yeah at a high cost per click and
they're also quite competitive to rank
for but the type of inquiries you get
are shocking yeah just most of the time
they're very generic they're small
they're small shops or small teams that
want our solutions for 100 quid a few
hundred quid a month when you get
specific into the industries that you
know actually have cash and appreciate
these things worthwhile investing and
you get long tail those sketch queries
we talked about those clients actually
know these these things cost money they
need a solid strategy and investment and
likewise for take that for your own
industry and alter it as you need you'll
start realizing that you might get fewer
inquiries but the type of inquiries you
get are actually the ones you want
yeah we rank for I think it's SEO agency
Cambridge but then there's a more
specific one where we are WordPress
agency Cambridge and we've had some
amazing leads for the WordPress agency
Cambridge and then we were ranking at a
point first a Shopify agency Cambridge
as well compared to that sort of top
level just SEO agency Cambridge and
again could be
some difference between people a bit
further down the decision-making process
and what they need or it could just be a
case of those SEO agency keywords aren't
as good to rank for but it's again it's
that kind of
see what's working in your industry well
because you always see people on
LinkedIn once every so often you'll see
the person who will dismiss ranking
first for say SEO agency London or SEO
agency is it being generic but there are
some local terms that we found have
worked quite well outside of London for
example
like many things you're right you've got
a I think it's you've got a stroke of
balance right like the niche long tail
terms are specific to the industries you
want to attract you want to do that
because that's a shorter term way they
typically can rank a lot faster like
three four months perhaps a bit higher
and then you want to go after the
monster terms that maybe you've got a
ton of traffic they know we'll give some
leads like in our case I think we've got
web development company kind of page one
the top three organic sports that brings
us some terrible inquiries but on the
flip side we get some massive Brands
every now and then that come in that
want to discuss kind of high six-figure
contracts and it's like it's worthwhile
it's taken a long time to achieve but
it's it's a big hitter because it gets
kind of decent environment requests
every now and then we've seen a similar
thing as well on our side for a few
other keywords where it just depends how
that person on the other side is
searching for it we've had some big
Brands who you would potentially think
oh they all maybe have a preferred web
partner that they worked with a previous
brand or something like this but they've
just literally gone into Google picked
the top five agencies that rank for the
keyword got them all to send a proposal
and gone through it that approach it
just really does depend doesn't it on
the Searcher on the other side and
there's no hard and fast rule for it
really
exactly and moving into talking about
technical SEO just a little bit and
thinking of small to medium sized
companies so not Enterprise level
massive sites with ginormous blogs and
resource sections how important is
technical SEO in a B2B SEO strategy for
these size companies
yeah I think it's important for a couple
reasons so first off just nailing good
on page SEO is smart so making sure and
that it's twofold really one from an SEO
perspective because Google like we
talked about before did place a lot of
importance on web vitals and it's not to
say they might flip the switch next
month so they might say yeah you need
mobile friendliness quick loading site
easy navigation good user experience is
important but likewise sound technical
seos for making sure things like I know
you've got your heading tags sorted out
you've got a new metadata sorted out
you've got your H1s down to h3s Etc
sorted out it's smart and then you've
got internal links so if you're doing I
don't know a long form page and then
maybe you reference another service you
link back to that service that can give
a small SEO uptick so doing that is good
basic it does play a small part in your
SEO strategy but also from a user
experience point so making sure that
when people actually land on your site
that they're not going to get frustrated
because your site takes ages to low code
perhaps your navigation is poor or
perhaps when they go into the mobile
version of site and they expand your
menu it's quite hard to read or it's not
clear on how they can find certain
pieces of information or book a demo or
view a case study so just it's just
smart business sense and real smart B2B
companies they build their websites for
their buyers so they're constantly
taking feedback from prospects or
customers and they're asking questions
like what's working well about our site
what do you feel is missing from our
site what could be improved on our
website because when you really
understand who you're building it for
and you're building like a feedback loop
of what could be improved and you're
taking that common feedback you get and
actually in putting that into play
whether that's for your con your copy
whether it's the pages themselves or the
sections that you feel that prospects
are saying that's missing then that way
rather than guessing what is actually
going to make an impact because you're
getting it straight from the horse's
mouth
yeah I think that's something where I
mentioned before about
it being under reported in keyword
research about the business Direction I
think that's the same with that user
research it can add another wealth of
knowledge to an SEO campaign and really
help to
add lots of insights and as you say like
create this firewall of information and
feedback that's coming into site to
improve it and continually improve that
user experience and if you're then
already sending traffic to the site if
you can convert that better it's gonna
it's gonna make that SEO result look
even better and in terms of measuring
success and how can marketing managers
order people in charge of marketing at
B2B companies effectively track and
measure the success of their SEO efforts
is there anything they should be looking
out for
yeah of course the main thing you want
is bottom line revenue which just before
that is going to be either booked calls
book demos quote requests proposal
requests whatever your proponent of your
site is to strike your sales
conversation so those are the real end
goals but before that if we look a bit
higher up then it's going to be things
like actually ranking page one top three
organic spots for those Target Search
terms are going to bring on board those
idle clients that have intent for your
offer or have intent for a problem you
fix then seeing an uptick in that
relevant organic traffic then perhaps
seeing an uptick in things like session
times so when you review your analytics
your session times on those main pages
that you want people to be on whether
that's your home page your pricing page
your case study Pages
Etc which is also going to be beneficial
when you look at the prospects you want
to retarget so analyzing those things
like page rankings page traffic
session times on key Pages you want
people on and then of course bottom of
the funnel actually getting those
inquiries getting those leads and those
leads turning into customers that you
want to do business with
yeah I think that's the kind of common
misconception isn't it almost on
LinkedIn where someone will be like oh
it'll take like anywhere from six to 12
months to get results for SEO but what
that doesn't say is that you will
produce a piece of content you'll see it
rank at say 95th position then you see
it go up up down a little bit up up so
there's little murmurs you see and
things that you can keep an eye on that
send signals
to you that this is working and I think
a lot of people don't factor that and be
like look there is stuff that will work
it's not just suddenly Owen six months
time we'll start seeing organic Revenue
like pop off it's like there are things
that we can look at monitor report on
feed into the leadership team to be like
this is working let's keep going with it
so
you've got to think of it as a channel
and you've the good thing about SEO is
that you own it to a sense so you're
building on your website which is an
asset and it's if you're B2B is probably
one of the most important foundational
marketing assets that you control and
that you own so every time you add a
piece of content a new page a Blog
article Etc you're building on the asset
you're building on your ecosystem and
the beauty of SEO is you're not paying
for every click through whereas with
paid search with LinkedIn ads review
sites you're paying for every click but
organic SEO you're building up an
evergreen ecosystem so not just can you
increase can you gain leads for now but
you can gain inquiries for years to come
so every every time someone searches for
your offer asks a question around your
offer Compares you to a competitor if
you've done great SEO you're going to
show up top three every time and you're
going to have a chance to kind of get
that Prospect in your funnel nice and in
terms of not specifically focused on SEO
just more
about you at webtoys as a company what
is your content production process look
like do you say focus on that blog post
say first and then repurpose it based on
that or I know you do a lot on YouTube
so do you create that YouTube video and
then repurpose it from there
ours is a bit of a mess really because
it's whatever comes into my head at the
time it's completely different to client
strategy our own it's basically because
I run a lot of experiments because I
co-end the agency I can of course get
away with whatever the hell I want to do
whereas of course marketing managers Etc
marketing directors aren't probably
gonna have the flex that I've got so
yeah mine's mine's all over the shop
really Steve like right at the moment
we're building out a bunch of Niche long
form pages for all the main offers and
Main sectors the main industries that we
want to bring in and we've perhaps
neglected up to now we also like you
said every podcast we do as a like a
YouTube video in its own podcast and
then for the specific ones we'll build
out article pages around that and and
most of the get most of the solo
episodes I do are around questions I get
asked about SEO or B2 marketing or
website optimization so then I know
they've got a bit of demand behind them
so if someone's a if a few people have
asked me I know other people are
probably searching for it so it's a mix
of that really mix of kind of doing
those Niche long form Pages a mix of
doing quest questions that I get asked
and then repurposing those to videos and
podcasts and building out an article and
then chopping those up into LinkedIn
social Clips to keep me messing around
on there that kind of stuff really mate
yeah because it makes posting on
LinkedIn so much easier when you have
all of this other content around here
it's just so easy because you're like
okay well those four bullet points from
that one section of that blog post
perfect that makes a LinkedIn post and
that clip from the video cut it out put
it over there it still takes time but
those little ideas are so much easier
because you've taken lots of time up
here to think about them and then be
like and is what I'm saying correct and
then you can just put it out over on
LinkedIn fairly easily
it's a good way to get feedback fast as
well isn't it you can quickly tell if
something has traction like if there's
useful comments or if people repost it
or if they ask questions or if they tag
their peers it's really good I've nearly
always not always but nearly always
found that when I get asked questions
and I've repurpose those into posts
those tend to do quite well or I reenact
scenarios wherever there are certain
things or had unusual conversations
those tend to do quite well because
people can resonate with it yeah they're
almost the easiest ones as well because
someone's already given you the point
and then you just need to articulate it
nicely and put it in a readable format
so
we talked briefly about the approach
that you do at web Choice with your SEO
and how that tends to be different for
how you do it from your clients but how
does that look different in terms of how
we structure a campaign for clients yeah
it's like we talked about earlier really
I mean understanding first I think a lot
of the time like you said Steve when SEO
goes wrong is when agencies just want to
go after kind of terms that are perhaps
easy for them to rank for but don't
really Drive decent types of inquiries
maybe they look good on the reports I.E
they say like you see on LinkedIn quite
a lot they've got a Skyrocket in terms
of the graph chart yeah we've 10x
organic traffic and then you'll comment
on these linked to post and be like okay
how many of those contribute to demo
requests and how many contributed to
like profile revenue and there's just
like crickets no response so that's why
understanding those your clients that
you're working with the problems they
fix they're Target markets and what they
want to get out of as a result and and
also the other channels that they use at
the moment so how SEO can play a part of
it so crucial and let's say regularly
chatting with them to see how things are
going because reports might show one
thing but then the inquiries that are
coming in might turn out like for
example we might Target a few keywords
and then the inquiries that come in
might be quite poor so we'll say okay
we've learned from this we learned that
those inquiries were too high up in the
funnel they were too early stage or
perhaps they were Tire kickers there are
the wrong type of Industry let's shift
our Focus to this segment to this Market
because you've reported that the sales
team have had success from this other
channel on that market all right let's
focus our content for the next couple
months on that around that let's focus
our link building strategy around that
let's build out some media let's look
for some partnership let's build some
links on this sector and see how that
goes so yeah making sure that you're
actually working towards there's most
B2B companies want their site to drive
leads but they were ones that don't go
anywhere or customers that churn really
quick or customers don't have cash to
invest so making sure you're actually
doing it around the right markets is
really important
yeah getting those customers that either
churn or aren't the ideal customers that
you want to be working with is almost a
more annoying than not having them in
the first place especially if you say
hired extra resource or you've changed
your way of working or you've not worked
with an ideal client because you've got
this current capacity taken up for
example so yeah it's always a pain in
that sense in the last few minutes that
we've got I don't think we can avoid not
talking about AI of course and that
topic has come up in pretty much all of
the podcast interviews that we've done
because there is a very high chance it's
going to change drastically the way that
we do SEO and how do you personally feel
that AI will change the way that SEO is
done and delivered so day-to-day tasks
and tactics
it's going to be interesting and truth
be told I don't know exactly what is
what's going to happen I'd be in the
thing I'm most interested about right
now Steve is how Google play it because
yeah Google want to want to take our
cash they want to make a ton of money
for advertising let's not be around the
bush they're getting a ton of their
revenue through Google AdWords and it
would be really interesting to see if
Google actually want to put search
results before click-throughs I.E when
you ask a question when you search for a
vendor so you don't have to click
through on the listing whether that's
organic or paid but they literally give
you the answers there and whether
they've built some kind of middle system
that's not like you have to click
through to a website to get the info
you're after but maybe you get a snippet
of the info like almost like featured
Snippets now but something a bit more
involved so AI comes in between they
still generate some cash because you're
giving part of the answer so maybe they
reduce the amount of listings you get or
some of that so it's going to be
interesting to see what Google do in
terms of giving your answer before you
click through but in terms of AI I think
it's if you're neglecting it then you're
probably making things hard for yourself
or your team because it can be really
good in terms of kind of building out
content topics building up Frameworks
for your blog articles your service
pages and not blindly following it but
getting like a starting Foundation then
tweaking that with your own insights
your own ideas your own questions and
answers and things like that so it's
definitely a place for it right now what
I'm most curious about is to how it's
going to impact the search listing Pages
the search engine result pages over the
next year or two that's going to be a
funny thing to see yeah I saw that
screenshot of was it Google Maggie where
it's like the had no ad there like all
of the top comments were like where are
the ads and I feel like it might be a
not a knee-jerk reaction but something
just to get out there
don't lose the market share to Microsoft
and then at some point in the future
figure out how to monetize it so almost
let's just get something in place that
people will use and then we'll figure
out how to monetize it otherwise if they
keep letting stuff slip to Microsoft who
are to be fair to them we've made fun of
Bing for many years but they're on a
roll at the moment in terms of AI and
staying ahead of the curve in this
aspect so it'll be interesting to see if
they can keep that going or if Google
will all hands on deck and pull it back
a bit
it's it's gonna be a funny time the next
12 months or so are going to be really
interesting stage for sea so it'll be
good to see where it goes yeah exactly
and as you said I think it's if you're
doing SEO well and you have certain
processes set up in place it's this part
here we can get generative AI to work on
that this part here we can do that we
can get nicer images or these little
things to assist you and people with the
good process in place that can figure
out that can go to there that can go to
there and then use it to assist them
rather than just being like write this
post to outrank this which is this gets
a few likes on LinkedIn but it's not
gonna work really is it
yeah I think people surround it I think
the biggest mistake that's with SEO is
that people aren't like I said with the
websites it's not built for but with
buyers in mind it's just blindly
following software tools like ahrefs
semrash Etc which are fine there's
nothing wrong with those tools but
you're limiting yourself if you don't
really understand like I talked about
earlier the problems that you fix what
prospects search when they need your
offer what questions they have and to do
that you need to listen to sales schools
you need to use tools like gong or you
need to hold the sales calls yourself or
you need to start interviewing your
audit plans such a useful exercise to do
for not just SEO for B2B Marketing in
general and it's neglected by so many
people yeah agreed and yeah final
question for me really is just how can
people stay up to date with you and
where's best to follow along for your
Sage advice
appreciate it so yeah LinkedIn I post a
couple times most days and otherwise if
you want more SEO tips and B2B marketing
tips for free you can check out my
podcast business Grace show otherwise if
you're perhaps feeling a bit frustrated
that when idle clients are searching for
your offer competitively showing up
above you on Google stealing those leads
and inquiries or maybe a website's not
converting as well as you'd hope then
we're over at webchoiceuk.com nice
perfect amazing yeah for everybody
listening thank you for tuning in this
has been bite size B2B marketing and you
can follow along for clips of the
podcast on LinkedIn and we're also on
all good podcast platforms so Sam thank
you for coming on I appreciate your time
cheers Steve